# Customer and Social Network Analysis: Networking_The_Top_Charts_of_Spotify

Today, Spotify is the dominant music streaming service in the world, boasting 350 million subscribers and a market cap of $23.88 billion. In this project, we assess the factors that influence a song’s tendency to become popular. To obtain and evaluate the data set, web API’s of Spotify and Genius have been utilized. This project analyzes metrics of top Spotify songs such as danceability and artist popularity and their impact on a song’s popularity. Sentiment analysis has also been performed to find the sentiment score of each song to determine the correlation between the sentiment of a song’s lyrics and its popularity. Visual depictions of the connectivity of top songs are subsequently made through network representations. Applications of these network representations are further explored as it relates to making Spotify a more effective and engaging platform, not only as a streaming service but as a social network.

In this project, social network representations of chart-topping songs have been constructed and have found variables that are statistically significant variables from the dataset. These songs have been extracted from the Spotify and Genius API’s. The focal points are the largest nodes in a network representation having the highest degrees. Additionally, as a social network representation expands in nodes (i.e, songs added to the representation), the focal point changes. Making the network more far-reaching results in focal points increasing or decreasing in number or changing to different nodes.

As for further implications, applications of results of the project can be expanded by adding the network representation to the Spotify interface, specifically to their annual feature called “Wrapped”. Wrapped is a marketing campaign released every year that summarizes the most listened to songs, artists and genres of a user. Spotify can also add a network representation of the most popular songs in a user’s playlist to their Wrapped. This would align with the viral trend of users wanting to share screenshots of their Wrapped summary as a form of self-expression. Network representations would likely be very different across users and serve as a further form of self-expression.
